---
layout: post
title:  "ဆော့ဝဲ ပရောဂျက် တစ်ခုမှာ လူဘယ်နှစ်ယောက်ပါလဲ?"
date:   2023-10-17 07:55:00 +0630
categories: howto
---
End-User License Agreement (EULA)



1. Acceptance of Terms

By using Myandora ("the App"), you agree to abide by the terms and conditions set forth in this End-User License Agreement ("EULA"). If you do not agree with these terms, please do not use the App.

2. User-Generated Content

The App may allow you to submit, post, or otherwise contribute content, including but not limited to text, images, videos, and comments ("User-Generated Content"). You understand and agree to the following precautions regarding User-Generated Content:

a. No Tolerance for Objectionable Content

You acknowledge that the App does not tolerate any User-Generated Content that is objectionable, offensive, or in violation of applicable laws and regulations. This includes, but is not limited to, content that is sexually explicit, defamatory, abusive, harassing, threatening, discriminatory, or otherwise harmful.

b. Reporting Mechanism

The App provides a mechanism for users to report objectionable content or abusive behavior. If you encounter such content or behavior, please report it immediately through the designated reporting channels within the App.

c. Content Moderation

We reserve the right to, but are not obligated to, review, moderate, and remove User-Generated Content that violates our content guidelines or is reported as objectionable by other users. We may take such action without prior notice, and our decision is final.

d. Your Responsibility

As a user, you are solely responsible for the User-Generated Content you submit to the App. You agree not to submit any content that violates these terms or any applicable laws.

e. Indemnification

You agree to indemnify and hold [Your Company Name], its affiliates, and its personnel harmless from any claims, damages, or liabilities arising from your User-Generated Content or your use of the App in violation of these terms.

3. Consequences of Violation

Violation of these User-Generated Content precautions may result in the termination of your access to the App and may be reported to relevant authorities as required by law.

4. Changes to Terms

Our Company reserves the right to modify or update these User-Generated Content precautions within the EULA at any time. It is your responsibility to review the EULA periodically to stay informed of any changes.

6. Contact Information

If you have any questions or concerns regarding these User-Generated Content precautions or the App in general, please contact us at admin@mmsoftware100.com .

By using the App, you acknowledge that you have read, understood, and agreed to these User-Generated Content precautions and the terms outlined in this EULA.


Last Updated: [2023-10-17]